# Configuring Amazon S3 for AWS LakeFormation
## Introduction
Welcome to the first lesson of our tutorial on building a secure data lake with AWS Lake Formation. In this lesson, we'll guide you through the initial steps of setting up and configuring AWS Lake Formation, including creating users, assigning permissions, and linking databases to S3 buckets.

## Prerequisites
Before we begin, make sure you have an AWS account, and you've signed in to the AWS Management Console.

## Step 1: Creating a New User
1. Navigate to the IAM service in the AWS Management Console.

2. Create a new user named `lake-formation-admin` with Management Console Access.

3. Generate a custom password for the user (optional for this project) and disable `Users must create a new password at next sign-in - Recommended` for ease purposes. Then Click `Next`

4. Click `attach policies directly` and attach the following policies for learning purposes:
    - `AdministratorAccess`
    - `AWSLakeFormationDataAdmin`

5. Click `Create User` to finish the user creation process.

#### Note: In a production environment, avoid granting full admin access for security reasons.

## Step 2: Adding Administrator to AWS Lake Formation
1. Search and Access the AWS Lake Formation service and just click `Get Started`.

2. Add an administrator by clicking `Add` under the `Data Lake Administrators` section.

3. Select the user we just created, named `lakeformation-admin` and click `Confirm`

## Step 3: Logging in as Lake Formation Admin
1. Log in as the newly created `lake-formation-admin` user.

2. Make sure to set the region to the one in which you created Lake Formation.

## Step 4: Granting Permissions to Lake Formation Admin
1. In Lake Formation under `Administrative roles and tasks` section and under the `DataBase Creators` section, click `Grants` and select `Lake Formation admin`

2. Grant permission to create a database and uncheck the `Grantable permissions` second option.

3. Click `Grant` to apply the permissions.

## Step 5: Creating S3 Buckets
1. Navigate to S3 in the AWS Management Console.

2. Create three buckets with the following names:
    - `Lake-Formation-Raw`

    - `Lake-Formation-Processed`
      
    - `Lake-Formation-Curated`

NOTE: You may have to append a unique string to the end of the bucket name to make it globally unique, and allow you to create the bucket. eg. `Lake-Formation-Raw-3473`

3. Enable `Bucket Versioning` and `encryption` for each bucket. However, now SSE-S3(Server-Side Encryption with Amazon S3 Managed Keys) should be enabled by default.

## Step 6: Creating Folders in the Raw Bucket
1. In the "Demo-Lake-Formation-Raw" bucket, create two folders:
- `input`

- `output`

2. Create an additional folder for storing queries with a name eg. `athena`.

## Step 7: Linking Databases to S3 Buckets
1. In Lake Formation, `Create three databases` linked to the respective S3 buckets:

2. Link the databases by just clicking Browse and selecting the appropriate bucket to linked your Database to:
    - Database: `Demo-Raw` (linked to Raw S3 bucket)

    - Database: `Demo-Processed` (linked to Processed S3 bucket)

    - Database: `Demo-Curated` (linked to Curated S3 bucket)

## Congratulations! 
You've completed the initial setup of AWS Lake Formation, created users, granted necessary permissions, and linked databases to S3 buckets. In the next lesson, we'll dive deeper into the configuration of AWS Glue for data preparation and ingestion.
